Contributing to voice initiative page creation (#36393)
home-assistant/home-assistant.github.io: source/voice_control/contribute-voice.markdown

---
title: Contribute to the Voice initiative
related:
  - docs: /voice_control/best-practices
    title: Best Practices with Assist
  - docs: /voice_control/builtin_sentences
    title: Sentences starter kit
  - url: https://www.nabucasa.com/config/
    title: Home Assistant Cloud
---

> ### Contribute samples to Wake Word Collective

Reviewer: Let's add an intro 

```suggestion
Home Assistant Voice relies on different technologies, models and data sources to be able to process wake words and commands in all languages. These projects, by our and other communities, rely on volunteers to donate their time, voice or language knowledge for improvement.

Note that models are trained on lots of data and that it can take time before you are able to see the impact of them.

### Contribute samples to Wake Word Collective
```

---
title: Contribute to the Voice initiative
related:
  - docs: /voice_control/best-practices
    title: Best Practices with Assist
  - docs: /voice_control/builtin_sentences
    title: Sentences starter kit
  - url: https://www.nabucasa.com/config/
    title: Home Assistant Cloud
---

> Home Assistant Voice relies on different technologies, models and data sources to be able to process wake words and commands in all languages. These projects, by our and other communities, rely on volunteers to donate their time, voice or language knowledge for improvement.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Home Assistant Voice relies on different technologies, models and data sources to be able to process wake words and commands in all languages. These projects, by ours and other communities, rely on volunteers to donate their time, voice or language knowledge for improvement.
```

> Home Assistant Voice relies on different technologies, models and data sources to be able to process wake words and commands in all languages. These projects, by ours and other communities, rely on volunteers to donate their time, voice or language knowledge for improvement.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

Home Assistant Voice relies on different technologies, models, and data sources to process wake words and commands in all languages. Our and other communities' projects rely on volunteers who donate their time, voice, or language knowledge to improve.
```

> Note that models are trained on lots of data and that it can take time before you are able to see the impact of them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that models are trained on lots of data and that it can take time before you are able to see the impact of your contributions.
```

### Contribute samples to Wake Word Collective

> Give us a minute of your time to improve the sample database with your own samples. Find the form [here](https://ohf-voice.github.io/wake-word-collective/).  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Give us a minute of your time to improve the sample database with your own samples. Find the form [here](https://ohf-voice.github.io/wake-word-collective/).
```

In general, it is better to describe the link instead of "here".

### Donate your voice to Piper

> To create a Piper voice, you don't need an army of volunteers. You need a native speaker of a language to create a dataset, which is then trained into a Piper model and verified again by the native speaker. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To create a Piper voice, you don't need an army of volunteers. You need a native speaker of a language to create a dataset, which is then trained into a Piper model and verified again by the native speaker.
```

> Check the Training guide [here](https://github.com/rhasspy/piper/blob/master/TRAINING.md).

Reviewer 2: Same as above, we should not just link "here" but instead link the text.

Author: gah you are right, missed it. On it
